mammal: A mammal is an animal that usually has hair and is not born from an egg. "Even though it lives in the water, whales are actually mammals."
primate: A primate is a type of mammal that includes monkeys, apes, and humans. "primates use their hands for such tasks as swinging from branches."
marsupial - сумчатое
rodent - грызун
reptile: A reptile is a cold-blooded animal that lays eggs and has skin covered with scales. "Lizards are my favorite type of reptile."
herbivore - травоядный, carnivore - плотоядный, omnivore (omnivorous) - всеядный, insectivore
predator: A predator is an animal that kills and eats other animals. "The peregrine falcon is a predator that eats fish."
vertebrate / invertebrate

honeycomb - пчелиные соты
hive​ (also beehive) - (пчелиный) улей

buck - самец, stallion - жеребец, stud - племенной жеребец, gelding - мерин, colt - жеребёнок, stag - самец оленя, ram (an adult male sheep that can breed), lamb (ягнёнок, ягнятина, ягниться), boar - кабан, хряк / doe самка, mare - кобыла, ewe (a female sheep, especially an adult one), sow - свиноматка

abdomen - жопка (муравья, пчелы, паука и т.д.)
muzzle - морда (собаки, лошади и т.д.), snout
muzzle - намордник
udder - вымя

ant - муравей (anthill - муравейник)
arachnid: any small creature of the class that includes spiders, scorpions, mites and ticks
armadillo - броненосец
beaver - бобр
beetle - жук
boar - кабан, хряк
bobcat, lynx
buffalo
calf - телёнок
caterpillar - гусеница: A caterpillar is a small insect that looks like a worm and eats plants. "After eating a lot of leaves, caterpillars change into butterflies."
chrysalis, pupa - куколка; larva, nymph, maggot - личинка
coyote
crow - ворон(а)
cricket - сверчок: A cricket is an insect that makes loud noises, usually at night. "In the country, we could see the stars and hear the crickets at night."
deer (reindeer)
dragonfly - стрекоза
eel - угорь
firefly - светлячок
frog - лягушкаs
giraffe
grasshopper - кузнечик
hare - заяц
hippopotamus
hummingbird - колибри
hyena - гиена
ladybug
jellyfish - медуза
leech - пиявка
lizard - ящерица
locust - саранча
mandibles - челюсти (как у муравья и т.д.)
meerkat - сурикат
mink - норка
mockingbird - пересмешник
mole - крот
mongoose - мангуст
mosquito - комар, москит
moth - моль
octopus
opossum
orangutan: An orangutan is a large ape with red and brown hair and long arms. "orangutans use their long arms to swing from trees."
ostrich - страус
otter - выдра
oyster - устрица
parrot
partridge - куропатка
pecan
peregrine (also peregrine falcon) - сапсан
pig, swine
pike - щука
porcupine - дикобраз
porpoise
racoon = a raccoon - енот
rhinoceros
robin - малиновка
rook - грач
salmon, trout
scallop
sea horse
sea urchin - морской ёж
seagull
seal
sheep - овца, овцы
shrimp - креветка
skunk - скунс
snake (old use: serpent)
snail - улитка
squid - кальмар
teal - чирок (a small wild duck); бирюзовый (зеленовато-голубой)
termite: A termite is an insect that lives in groups and feeds on wood. "The wood we found was full of termites."
toad - жаба
tuna - тунец
vulture - стервятник (в т.ч. в переносном смысле, про людей)
wader - кулик
walrus - морж
whale - кит
woodpecker - дятел
worm: A worm is a small animal with a long, thin body. "worms are often used to help catch fish."
