ankle - лодыжка
arm, fore arm, upper arm
armpit - подмышка
back - спина
bile - желчь
bladder - мочевой пузырь (gall bladder - желчный пузырь)
body, torso, trunk
bottom (informal: backside, behind) - зад(ница)
buttock - ягодица
calf - икра ноги
cheek
chest
ear
eardrum - барабанная перепонка (tympanum (ANATOMY))
eyelash - ресница
eyelid - веко
fingernail, toenail
fist: A fist is a hand with fingers bent in toward the palm. "The bully made a fist and threatened to hit the small boy."
forefinger: The forefinger is the finger between one’s thumb and middle finger. "He shouted, “ There it is!” and pointed with his forefinger."
forehead, brow - лоб, eyebrow - бровь
groin - пах
gut - живот, stomach - живот, желудок, abdomen(abdominal), belly (informal), tummy ("животик")
hamstring - подколенное сухожилие (one of the five tendons behind the knee that connect the muscles of the upper leg to the bones of the lower leg)
heart
heel - пятка, каблук
hip
jaw
joint - сустав; knee - колено; elbow - локоть, shoulder - плечо: The elbow is the middle part of a person's arm that lets you bend it. "She pointed to her elbow to show me where she hurt herself."
                                                                 A joint is a place of the body where the bones meet, such as the knee. "Two important bones in your leg meet at a joint in your knee."
kidney - почка
knuckle - костяшка пальцев
ligament - связка
limb - конечность
liver - печень
lung - лёгкое: A lung is the organ in the body that fills with air when breathing. "Having strong lungs is necessary for a healthy life."
mandible - нижняя челюсть (кость)
marrow - костный мозг: marrow is the soft substance in the center of bones. "Dissolved marrow is a common ingredient in soups."
muscle: muscle is a mass of tissue attached to bone that helps you move. "She went to the gym in order to make her muscles stronger."
neck - шея
nostril - ноздря
pelvis - таз
pupil - зрачок, iris - радужная оболочка
shin - голень
sinew, tendon - сухожилие
spine - позвоночник, backbone: The spine is the bone that runs up and down the middle of the back. "Our spine helps us to stand up nice and straight."
temple - висок
thigh - бедро
vessel (сосуд), vein, artery
waist - талия
wrist - запястье
