
   delusions of grandeur: the belief that you are more important or powerful than you really are (мания величия)
     "Don't go getting delusions of grandeur"

C1 after all - в конце концов

B2 hand sth over

C2 be in the mood (for sth/to do sth): to feel like doing or having something
"We could go out to eat, if you're in the mood."
"I'm not really in the mood for shopping."
"He seemed to be in the mood to fight."

B1 (every) once in a while

B2 (just) for once, just this once: (informal) on this occasion (which is in contrast to what happens usually).
     "For once, the bus came on time."
     "Just for once he arrived on time."
     "Can't you be nice to each other just this once?"
     "All right, I'll lend you the money - just this once."

B1 once again, once more: one more time; another time.
     "Once again the train was late."
     "Let me hear it just once more."
     "Once again, racist attacks are increasing across Europe."
     "I'd like to visit the campus once more before we leave."

   once or twice: a few times.
     "I've seen him once or twice in town."
     "I don't know her well, I've only met her once or twice."

C2 once and for all: now and for the last time; finally or completely.
     "We need to settle this once and for all."
     "Our intention is to destroy their offensive capability once and for all."

   once in a lifetime: used to describe something special that is not likely to happen to you again.
     "A tour of Australia is a once-in-a-lifetime experience."
     "An opportunity like this comes once in a lifetime."
     "An opportunity as good as this arises once in a lifetime."

   the chance, etc. of a lifetime: a wonderful opportunity, etc. that you are not likely to get again.
     "the trip of a lifetime"
     "When she was offered the job she knew it was the chance of a lifetime."

C1 even so

C1 break even: to have no profit or loss at the end of a business activity (breakeven - точка безубыточности)
   "After paying for our travel costs, we barely (= only just) broke even."
   "The company just about broke even last year."

   [impeach]able, exceptionable, objectionable, obnoxious
   unimpeachable, irreproachable (irreproachably), unexceptionable, blameless

   doom and gloom, gloom and doom: a general feeling of having lost all hope, and of pessimism (= expecting things to go badly)
     "Despite the obvious setbacks, it is not all doom and gloom for the England team."
     "The newspapers are always full of doom and gloom (= bad news and unhappiness) these days."

   one and the same - один и тот же:
     "I was amazed to discover that Mary's husband and Jane's son are one and the same (person)."
     "It turns out that her aunt and my cousin are one and the same."

   be all the same to sb - всё равно (to not be important to somebody)
     "It's all the same to me whether we eat now or later." "I don't mind whether we eat now or later, it's all the same to me."
     "If it's all the same to you, I don't think I'll go."

   (the) same to you (informal) - тебе того же

C1 all/just the same: despite what has just been said, despite this, nevertheless.
     "It rained every day of our holiday - but we had a good time all the same."
     ‘Will you stay for lunch?’ ‘No, but thanks all the same.’
     "All the same, there's some truth in what she says."
     "He's not very reliable, but I like him just the same."

C1 relate to sb/sth
C1 relate to sb
   relate to sth "I can totally relate to that" = "Я это прекрасно понимаю"
   pertain to
   TODO in regards to

C1 bit by bit - потихоньку, постепенно, шаг за шагом (a piece at a time; gradually):
     "He assembled the model aircraft bit by bit."
     "Bit by bit memories of the night came back to me."
C1 step by step - по шагам, step-by-step - пошаговый (dealing with one thing and then another thing in a fixed order):
     "step-by-step instructions"
     "Don't worry - I'll go through the procedure with you step by step."

C1 US:in light of sth; UK: in the light of sth - в свете чего-либо (because of):
    "In light of recent incidents, we are asking our customers to take particular care of their personal belongings."

   in the cold light of day - при холодном свете дня, при здравом размышлении (​when you have had time to think calmly about something; in the morning when things are clearer):
     "These things always look different in the cold light of day."
     "The next morning, in the cold light of day, Sarah realized what a complete idiot she had been."

C1 be a far cry from sth

   spin something <-> out - продлить, растянуть (to make something such as an activity or story last longer than usual or necessary, or as long as possible)
     "Can we spin our holiday out for a few more days?"
     "Somehow, she managed to spin her story out so that it took her the whole train journey to tell it."

   on the fly - на лету (informal) if you do something on the fly, you do it quickly while something else is happening, and without thinking about it very much
     "Now, while I'm on the desktop, I can switch between open apps on the fly."
     "This new rule seems to have been created on the fly."

B1 once upon a time - однажды (​used, especially at the beginning of stories, to mean ‘a long time ago in the past’):
     "Once upon a time there was a beautiful princess/ugly duckling/etc."

B2 on account of sth - на основании чего-л.
TODO account

   take wing (literary) - улететь, "встать на крыло" (If a bird takes wing, it flies away):
     (literary) (of a bird, insect, etc.) to fly away:
     (figurative) to suddenly develop, freely and powerfully: "Her imagination took wing." - "Её изображение взмыло ввысь"
                                                              "She walked in the hills, letting her thoughts take wing."
    on the wing (literary) - A bird that is on the wing is flying
    take sb under your wing - ызять под крыло (​to take care of and help somebody who has less experience of something than you):
      "Simon's uncle had taken him under his wing."
      "I was a little bit lonely at the time and she took me under her wing."
    spread your wings - расправить крылья (to become more independent and confident and try new activities, etc.):
      "Going to college gave her the chance to spread her wings."
      "She'd been working for the same company for 15 years and it was time to leave and spread her wings."
    on a wing and a prayer - на честном слове и на одном крыле (with only a very slight chance of success):
      "With hardly any funding and a staff of six, they were operating on a wing and a prayer."
    clip sb's wings - подрезать крылья (to limit a person’s freedom or power):
      "Having a new baby to take care of has clipped her wings."
    (waiting) in the wings - ожидающий своего часа (ready to take over a particular job or be used in a particular situation when needed):
      "The team has several talented young players waiting in the wings."
      "She was aware of a whole host of ambitious young managers waiting in the wings."
      "There's a wealth of talent waiting in the wings of British theatre."

   be rushed/run off your feet - сбиться с ног (​to be extremely busy; to have too many things to do); US informal: in the weeds - в запаре ("The bartender was alone and in the weeds, so we had to wait twenty minutes to order.")
     "Weekdays are slow in the restaurant, but at weekends the staff are rushed off their feet."
     "Business was booming, and everyone in the office was rushed off their feet."

   bring sth on yourself/sb - навлечь (позор, неприятности и т.д.): to be responsible for something unpleasant that happens to you/somebody
     "I have no sympathy — you brought it all on yourself."
     "He has brought shame and disgrace on the whole family."

   within/beyond the bounds/realms of possibility - (не) исключено, (не) выходит за рамки возможного (possible / impossible)
     "It's not beyond the realm of possibility that some schools may have to cut sport altogether."
     "Do you think he could step down?" "I think it's within the realms of possibility, yes."
     "A successful outcome is not beyond the realms of possibility."
     "It is not beyond the bounds of possibility that we'll all meet again one day."

   rack your brains (US rack your brain) - ломать голову (to think very hard)
     "I've been racking my brains all day but I can't remember her name."
     "She racked her brains, trying to remember exactly what she had said."
     "We racked our brains but we couldn't come up with a solution."

   drop by/in | drop in on sb | drop into sth - зайти заглянуть, заскочить (в гости): to pay an informal visit to a person or a place
     "Drop by sometime."
     "I thought I'd drop in on you while I was passing."
     "Drop in whenever you’re in the neighborhood."
     "Sorry we're late - we dropped into the pub on the way."
     "I dropped in to see Chris on my way home."

   to the core - до мозга костей (in every way; to an extreme degree)
     "He's a politician to the core (= in all his attitudes and actions)."
     "He's a Conservative to the core."
     "She was shaken to the core by the news."
     "I was shocked to the core."
   to the bone - до мозга костей (all the way through, or very badly; affecting you very strongly)
     "I was frozen/chilled to the bone after waiting so long for the bus."
     "His threats chilled her to the bone."

C2 be far/further/furthest removed from sth - to be very different from something; to not be connected with something
     "a pampered life far removed from the poverty of his youth"
     "Many of these books are far removed from the reality of the children's lives."
     "It's a wonderful experience but it's far removed from reality."

   (in/with) hindsight - в ретроспективе, задним числом, оглядываясь назад:
     "With the benefit/wisdom of hindsight, I should have taken the job."
     "With the wisdom of hindsight we now know that the old-fashioned aerosol sprays were a mistake."
     "With hindsight it is easy to say they should not have released him."
     "In hindsight, it would have been better to wait."
     "What looks obvious in hindsight was not at all obvious at the time."
     "It's easy to criticize with the benefit of hindsight."

   a pearl of wisdom - ценное указание/замечание ((usually ironic) a wise remark)
     "Thank you for those pearls of wisdom."

   conventional/received/popular wisdom - "Принято считать / Народная мудрость гласит" (the view or belief that most people hold)
     "Conventional wisdom has it that riots only ever happen in cities." - Принято считать, что бунты случаются только в городах

   in sb's (infinite) wisdom - в своей бесконечной мудрости (disapproving: ​used when you are saying that you do not understand why somebody has done something)
     "The government in its wisdom has decided to support the ban."
     "The authorities, in their infinite wisdom, decided to close the community centre."
     "The council, in its wisdom, decided to close the library and now the building stands empty."

C2 keep sth from sb - скрывать что-л. (to not tell someone about something)
     "He says it's alright but I think he's keeping something from me."
     "I think we ought to keep the truth from him until he's better."
     "They don’t keep anything from each other."
   keep sb from sth - мешать, предотвращать, удерживать (​to prevent somebody from doing something)
     "I hope I'm not keeping you from your work."
     "I must go now. I've kept you from your dinner too long."
     "The church bells keep me from sleeping."
   keep sb from sth - скрыть (to make something stay out of something)
     "She could not keep the dismay from her voice."
   keep (yourself) from sth - удержаться (​to prevent yourself from doing something):
     "She could hardly keep from laughing."
     "I just managed to keep myself from falling."

   as often as not, more often than not: usually; most of the time. "As often as not, he's late for work." "More often than not, a student will come up with the right answer."
   once too often: used to say that somebody has done something wrong or stupid again, and this time they will suffer because of it (слишком часто). "You've tried that trick once too often."
C1 at times: sometimes. "He can be really bad-tempered at times." "The rain will become heavy at times in the afternoon." "You can be really annoying at times, you know."
C1 (every) now and again/then: from time to time; occasionally (время от времени). "Every now and again she checked to see if he was still asleep." "Every now and again/then they'll have a beer together."
C2 every so often: occasionally; sometimes but not often  (время от времени). "Every so often I heard a strange noise outside." "Every so often I treat myself to a meal in an expensive restaurant."
C2 time after time, time and (time) again: often; again and again; on many or all occasions (раз за разом, снова и снова) "You will get a perfect result time after time if you follow these instructions." "Time after time she gets involved in relationships with the wrong men."

C2 on the increase
   increasing(ly)

C2 die down: to become gradually less strong, loud, noticeable, etc.
     "The flames finally died down."
     "When the applause had died down, she began her speech."
     "It was several minutes before the applause died down."

B2 take it for granted - считать как само собой разумеещееся: ​to believe something is true without first making sure that it is
     "I didn't realize that Melanie hadn't been to college - I suppose I just took it for granted."
     "I just took it for granted that he'd always be around."
     "She seemed to take it for granted that I would go with her to New York."

B2 take sb/sth for granted - принимать как должное: ​to be so used to somebody/something that you do not recognize their true value any more and do not show that you are grateful
     "One of the problems with relationships is that after a while you just take each other for granted."
     "Her husband was always there and she just took him for granted."
     "We take having an endless supply of clean water for granted."

   the gory details

   a thorn in sb flesh/side - заноза в заднице: a person or thing that repeatedly annoys somebody or stops them from doing something
     "A relentless campaigner, he was a thorn in the government's side for a number of years."

   chew sth up - зажевать: If a machine chews up something that you have put inside it, it damages or destroys it. "The cash machine chewed up my card!"

C2 bury/immerse yourself in sth: to give all your attention

C2 revert to

C2 steady job/work

C1 prove yourself

C2 grasp at sth
C2 grasp the nettle (UK)

   a point of departure - отправная точка (путешествия, идеи, теории, события и тд)

   a point of honour - дело чести

   point taken/I take you point - смысл ясен. "Point taken. Let's drop the subject." "I take your point. That's something we need to consider."

B1 in advance

   wonders (will) never cease: a phrase used to express surprise and pleasure at something
     "Lynda actually managed to get up before ten o'clock. Wonders never cease!"
     ‘I've cleaned my room.’ ‘Wonders will never cease!’

B2 mix sb/sth up - перепутать
   mix sb up: to confuse, worry, or upset someone. "The directions he gave me mixed me up and I went the wrong way."
   mix sth up: to make a group of things untidy or badly organized, or to move them into the wrong order. "Don't mix up the bottles - you'll have to repeat the experiment if you do."

B2 concerning = about

B2 make up for sth
   make amends

   to put it mildly; to say the least: without exaggerating at all - мягко говоря; если не сказать больше.
     "The result was unfortunate, to put it mildly (= it was extremely unfortunate)."
     "To say I’m disgusted is putting it mildly."
     "You don't smell great, to put it mildly"
     "I was surprised, to say the least."
     "I think you could have done better, to say the least"
     "You behaved inappropriately at the staff party, to say the least"

   shall we say: - скажем так, как бы это сказать
     "Your report was, shall we say, a little lacking"
     "Your reaction was, sahll we say, over the top"

C2 cannot afford

C1 needless to say

B2 quite a lot (of sth) (also British English, informal quite a bit): ​a large number or amount of something
     "They drank quite a lot of wine."
     "They have quite a bit of money."
     "Whenever I workout, I sweat quite a bit."

   quite a few (British English also a good few, a fair few): ​a fairly large number
     "I've been there quite a few times."

   quite a/some something: a large amount of something:
     "She hasn't been seen for quite some time."
     "They have been working on this for quite some time."

   quite a/the something: used to emphasize the degree or amount of something, or to say that sb or sth is impressive, interesting, or unusual
     "This is quite a different problem."
     "She's quite a beauty."
     "We found it quite a change when we moved to London."
     "He's quite the little gentleman, isn't he?"
     "It must be quite some car."
     "That's quite a beard you've grown, young man!"

B2 a good/great deal: a large amount. "She spends a good deal of her time in China."
                                      "A great deal of effort has gone into making the software reliable."
                                      "They still need a great deal more money to finish the project."
                                      "The baby resembles his father a great deal"
   no shortage of sth: a lot of sth:  "He has no shortage of ambition or energy."
                                      "There is no shortage of new land to build on."
                                      "The pianist’s performance contained no shortage of felicities."

С2 close in (on sb/sth) - приближаться, подкрадываться (to gradually get nearer to sb/sth, usually in order to attack them):
  "The lions closed in on their prey."
  "The advancing soldiers closed in on the town."
  "The hunt chased the fox until it was too tired and weak to run and then closed in for the kill."

C2 be blind to sth

B1 take place
C2 out of place
C2 in place

C1 have sth against sb

C2 put sb on the spot

C2 on the verge (of)

C2 at the expense of sb (also at sb's expense)

C1 at the expense of sth

C2 in the process
C2 be in the process of doing sth

   bow and scrape

C2 be beside yourself

C2 follow suit: (in card games) to play a card of the same suit that has just been played
                to act or behave in the way that sb else has just done. "When one airline reduces its prices, the rest soon follow suit."

C1 get rid of sb/sth
C1 dispose of sb/sth

ward off: to protect or defend yourself against danger, illness, attack, etc.
  "to ward off criticism"
  "She put up her hands to ward him off."
  "He used his umbrella to ward off the fierce sun."
  "In the winter I take vitamin C to ward off colds."
  "She was given a magic charm to ward off evil spirits."
keep away (from somebody/something): to avoid going near somebody/something
   "Keep away from the edge of the cliff."
keep somebody/something away (from somebody/something): to prevent somebody/something from going somewhere
   "Her illness kept her away from work for several weeks."

C2 in essence, B2 essentially, B2 basically, C2 fundamentally

C2 a drop in the ocean/bucket(US)

   add insult to injury; add fuel to the fire (UK also add fuel to the flames)

C2 pave the way: ​to create a situation in which somebody will be able to do something or something can happen (проложить путь, подготовитьь почву)
     "This decision paved the way for changes in employment rights for women."
     "Scientists hope that data from the probe will pave the way for a more detailed exploration of Mars."

   ​the streets are paved with gold: (saying) used to say that it seems easy to make money in a place
     "Unemployed youngsters still come to London thinking that the streets are paved with gold."

   the road to hell is paved with good intentions: (saying) it is not enough to intend to do good things; you must actually do them

C2 hit/touch/strike a (raw/sensitive) nerve: to mention a subject that makes somebody feel angry, upset, embarrassed, etc. (задеть за живое)
     "You touched a raw nerve when you mentioned his first wife."
     "She touched a raw nerve when she mentioned that job he didn't get."
     "My remarks about divorce had unwittingly touched a raw nerve."
     "The article struck a raw nerve as it revived unpleasant memories."

   get on somebody’s nerves: to annoy sb (действовать на нервы)
     "That music is starting to get on my nerves."
     "It really gets on my nerves when people talk loudly on the phone in public."
     "His endless whining really gets on my nerves."

   have nerves of steel: to be able to remain calm in a difficult or dangerous situation (иметь стальные нервы)
      "You need nerves of steel to be a good poker player."
      "You need to have nerves of steel to be a fighter pilot."

C2 be a bag/bundle of nerves: ​(informal) to be very nervous (быть комком нервов)
     "Sorry for shouting - I'm a bundle of nerves these days."
     "By the time of the interview, I was a bundle of nerves."

   strain every nerve/sinew (to do sth): to try as hard as you can to do something
     "He strained every nerve to snatch victory from defeat."
     "She's straining every nerve to get the work finished on time."

   a war of nerves: an attempt to defeat your opponents by putting pressure on them so that they lose courage or confidence
     "The union has been fighting a war of nerves with the management over pay."

   actions speak louder than words
   add fuel to the fire - подлить масла в огонь (to make an argument or bad situation worse, exacerbate, aggravate): "The discovery that the government was aware of the cover-up has really added fuel to the fire."
   the ball is in sb's court - (If the ball is in someone's court, they have to do something before any progress can be made in a situation):
     "I've done all that I can do - the ball is on your court"
     "It's up to you what to do - the ball is in your court now."
   bend over backwards - (to try very hard to do something good or helpful):
     "Our company is bending over backwards to satisfy our customers"
     "Oh, I've been bending over backwards trying to solve his problems and he hasn't given me the time of day"
     "Mann insisted that he bent over backwards to be objective in presenting the story."
   bite off more than you can chew (informal) -  (to try to do something that is too difficult for you):
     "I think I've bitten off more than I can chew with this project"
     "We bit off more than we could chew in our original reform proposals."
   by the skin of your teeth - (to only just succeed at sth by a narrow margin):
      "I think I might have passed that exam by the skin of my teeth"
      "He escaped from the secret police by the skin of his teeth."
   cry wolf - (to call for help when you don't need it):
     "If you cry wolf too often, people will stop believing you."
   cut sb some slack (informal) -  (to not judge someone as severely as you usually would because they are having problems at the present time):
     "You need to cut the intern some slack - the are still learning"
     "Andrew's late again." "Cut him some slack - his wife just had a baby."
C2 make allowances for:  to think about their characteristics and not judge them too severely.
     "You should make allowances for him - he's been quite ill recently."
     "This is a poor piece of work." "Yes, but you should make allowances for the fact that she's only seven."
     "You have to make allowances for him because he’s tired."

C2 be your last resort

B2 can't be bothered - не могу себя заставить (If you can't be bothered doing/to do something, you are too lazy or tired to do it).
   "I can't be bothered to iron my clothes." - "Не могу себя заставить погладить свою одежду."
   "Most evenings I can't be bothered cooking." - "Большинство вечеров у меня не ватает сил готовить."
   "I should really do some work this weekend but I can't be bothered." - "Мне на этих выходных на самом деле надо сделать кое-какую работу, но я не могу себя заставить."
   "All this has happened because you couldn't be bothered to give me the message." - "Всё это случилось потому, что вы не удосужились передать мне это сообщение."

   the point of no return - точка невозврата.
    "Russia, he said, had reached the point of no return on the road to reform and had to go forward."
    "Scientists fear that global warming has gone beyond the point of no return."

   seize on/upon something: to suddenly show a lot of interest in something, especially because you can use it to your advantage.
    "The rumours were eagerly seized upon by the local press." - Слухи были охотно подхвачены местной прессой
    "The story was seized on by the tabloid press, who printed it under huge headlines." - Эта история была подхвачена бульварной прессой, которая напечатала её под огромными заголовками.
    "Peter seized on her last comment." - Питер ухватился за её последний комментарий.
   pounce on/upon something: to quickly notice something that somebody has said or done, especially in order to criticize it.
    "His comments were pounced upon by the press." - На его комментарии набросилась пресса.
    "He knows that his critics are waiting to pounce on any slip that he makes." - Он знает, что его критики ждут, чтобы наброситься на любой его промах.

C2 be at the mercy of sb/sth: to be in a situation where someone or something has complete power over you.
  "I'm not going to put myself at the mercy of the bank."
  "We were at the mercy of the weather."
  "Poor people are increasingly at the mercy of money-lenders."

C2 resort to sth: To resort to something is to depend on it in order to solve a problem. "I hope they don't resort to violence to end the argument."

C1 brush up (on) sth освежить (повторить)

C2 dive in/dive into sth

C2 margin of error

   draw sb into sth - втянуть
   draw sb into (doing) sth | draw sb <-> in
     "youngsters drawn into a life of crime"
     "The book starts slowly, but it gradually draws you in"
     "They tried to draw me into their argument, but I refused."

   leave a lot, much, something, etc. to be desired: to be much worse than you would like.
     "Apparently, Meg's cooking leaves a lot to be desired."
     "The service in the restaurant left a lot to be desired."

C2 come by sth
   come by (somewhere)

C1 interfere with sth

   think sth up (devise, invent): to invent a plan or solution, to produce a new idea or plan
    "Just give him five minutes and he’ll think up an excuse."
    "I don't want to go tonight but I can't think up a good excuse."
    "Can't you think up a better excuse than that?"
    "Ann thought up an ingenious way to keep other people from accidentally taking her pens."

C2 be a recipe for disaster, trouble, success, etc

C2 be an effort: to be difficult, tiring, or boring to do. "I'm exhausted all the time, and everything is a real effort."

   opposed
C2 as opposed to
C1 be opposed to sth

C2 (from) under your nose (US also (out from) under your nose)

   be (right) under your nose

   the exception that proves the rule:
     "Most company directors are middle-aged men, but this 28-year-old woman is an exception that proves the rule."
     "Most electronics companies have not done well this year, but ours is the exception that proves the rule."
C1 have no option (but to do something)

C1 on site

C1 to cap/top it all ​(informal) - вдобавок ко всему этому (used to introduce the final piece of information that is worse than the other bad things that you have just mentioned)
   "And then, to cap it all, it started to rain!"
   "It's been a terrible week and now, to cap it all, I've got a cold."
B2/B2 on top of sth - вдобавок (in addition to something, especially something unpleasant)
   "We missed our flight, and on top of that we had to wait seven hours for the next one."
   "On top of everything else, my car's been stolen."
   "He gets commission on top of his salary."
B2/B2 on top of sth - друг на друге, как сельди в бочке (​very close to sth/sb)
   "We were all living on top of each other in that tiny apartment."

   nothing less than sth - не что иное как (​used to emphasize how great or extreme sth is)
     "It was nothing less than a disaster."
     "The chef will accept nothing less than perfection from his kitchen staff."
   little/nothing short of sth - чуть ли не, почти, практически, по сути, и т.д. (​used when you are saying that something is almost true, or is equal to something)
     "Last year's figures were little short of disastrous."
     "The transformation has been nothing short of a miracle."
     "The child’s ability to play the piano is nothing short of phenomenal."

C2 little more/better / no better - не намного больше/лучше, не более чем (​almost or just the same as; almost or just as bad as):
    "The wine they gave us was little better than vinegar."
    "The path was no better than a sheep track."
    "Charles VII was a bad king and Charles VIII was no better."

C2 for good (British English also for good and all) = for ever, permanently:
    "This time she's leaving for good"
    "She's gone and this time it's for good."
    "I'd like an excuse to get rid of him for good and all."

   by/in leaps and bounds - как на дрожжах (very quickly; in large amounts)
    "Her health has improved in leaps and bounds."
    "His technique has come on in leaps and bounds this season."

   flutter your eyelashes (humorous) - строить глазки:
     "Go and flutter your eyelashes at the barman, Janet, and see if you can get him to serve us."

   gild the lily - to improve or decorate something that is already perfect and therefore spoil it (лучшее - враг хорошего):
     "Should I add a scarf to this jacket or would it be gilding the lily?"

   with every fibre of your being

   hit the spot (informal) - в точку:  to be exactly what you want or need (to satisfy a craving or need); if something hits the spot it does exactly what it should do.
     "That burger really hit the spot — I didn't realize how hungry I was."
     "A cool glass of beer would really hit the spot."
     "You really hit the spot with that answer — good job."

   consider it done: used to say that you will do a particular task immediately (считай, уже сделано). "Could you give me a copy of this page, please?" "Consider it done."

   bread and circuses - хлеба и зрелищ

   do (sth) up = repair; fasten; wrap / undo = unfasten; cancel

C2 out of the ordinary

C1 beyond belief, repair, recognition, etc.

C1 be beyond sb

   out of the woods

   nowhere to be found/seen | nowhere in sight
B2 from/out of nowhere
C2 go/get/head nowhere
B2 (in) the middle of nowhere (informal disapproving)
C1 not anywhere near/nowhere near

   snatch victory from the jaws of defeat

   give/quote sth/sb chapter and verse: to give the exact details of something, especially the exact place where particular information may be found
     "I can't quote you chapter and verse but I think it's a line from "Macbeth"."
     "I can't give chapter and verse, but that's the rough outline of our legal position."

   (saying) absence makes the heart grow fonder

C2 a blanket of sth: a thick layer (covering) or mass of something
      "a blanket of fog/snow/cloud"
      "The ground was covered by a thick blanket of snow."
      (figurative) "The trial was conducted under a blanket of secrecy."

   give sb a dose/taste of their own medicine - отплатить той же монетой

   drift with the tide (disapproving)
C2 go with/against the flow

C2 would (just) as soon

B2 sooner or later

   no sooner said than done
C1 no sooner ... than

С2 give sb a hard time

C2 combine/join forces
C2 a force to be reckoned with
C2 in/into force

C2 keep your temper

B2 lose your temper

C2 be beside the point

   a case in point

C2 sleep on sth: to delay making a decision about something until the next day, so that you have time to think about it
     "Can I sleep on it, and tell you my decision tomorrow?"
     "Could I sleep on it and let you know tomorrow?"

   sleep debt - нехватка сна, недосып. "Americans’ sleep debt is a major safety hazard"

   sleep sth off: to get better after something, especially drinking too much alcohol, by sleeping. "Let's leave him to sleep it off." - давай оставим его, пусть проспится
   sleep through sth: "I never heard the storm last night - I must have slept through it." "I was so bored that I slept through the second half of the film."
   oversleep: to sleep for longer than you intended to and so wake up late. "I overslept and missed the bus.", "I missed the bus this morning because I overslept again."

   put (an animal) to sleep - усыпить животное

C1 make a point of doing sth: to be or make sure you do something because it is important or necessary.
    "I made a point of closing all the windows before leaving the house."
    "She makes a point of keeping all her shopping receipts."

   fog up
   steam (sth) up

   chime in - "подсвистывать", "поддакивать"

   a rolling stone gathers no moss

   ​gather your breath - перевести дух, отдышаться

C2 collect yourself/your thoughts - собраться (с мыслями), прийти в себя

   collect/gather dust dust

C1 gather speed, strength, momentum, etc

   a moot point/question: (British English, North American English) a matter about which there may be disagreement or confusion. "Whether this should be enforced by law or not is a moot point."

C2 to the point (по существу): expressed in a simple, clear way without any extra information or feelings.
    "Her comments on my work were very apt and to the point."
    "The letter was short and to the point."
    "I couldn't do the job - I've never been to Spain and, more to the point, I don't speak Spanish." - " ... и, что самое важное, я не говорю по Испански"

   the coast is clear

   by reputation - понаслышке (not directly, by hearing what other people say)
     "The two men know each other only by reputation."

   have a passing/slight/nodding acquaintance with sb/sth ("шапошное знакомство"): to know someone slightly or have a slight knowledge of a subject.
    "She has only a nodding acquaintance with the issues involved."
    "I'm afraid I have only a nodding acquaintance with his works."

   a leap in the dark
C2 in the dark (about something)

C1 read up (on/about) sth

   build up

С2 lend itself to sth: to be suitable for something.
 "The novel's complex, imaginative style does not lend itself to translation."
 "Her voice doesn't really lend itself well to blues singing."

C2 on this/that score - на этот счёт

C2 get sth over with

C2 the fabric of sth

C2 be without foundation (also: have no foundation)

C2 go through the roof
   off the charts (informal)

C2 the extent to which

   to the extent of

   by the scruff of the/somebody’s neck: roughly holding the back of an animal’s or person’s neck - за шиворот, за шкирку
     "She grabbed him by the scruff of the neck and threw him out."
     "Cats carry their kittens by the scruff of the neck."
     "I took/grabbed him by the scruff of his neck and threw him out of the hall."

   gravitate to/towards sb/sth

C1 tear sth up
C2 tear sb/sth apart
C2 tear sth down
C1 tear sth up

   in one fell swoop

   to the extent that

   to the same extent

   to what extent?

B2 to some extent

C2 pose as sb

C2 leap at sth
C2 jump at sth

   at any cost (at all costs)
C2 at any price
C2 at any rate

   as from… / as of… - начиная с (used to show the time or date from which something starts):
     "Our phone number is changing as from May 12."
     "Lee and I are now officially engaged, as of yesterday."
     "As of next month, all the airline's fares will be going up."

C1 the height of sth: the time when a situation or event is strongest or most full of activity.
     "August is the height of the tourist season."
     "At the height of the violence/crisis we were left without any help."

C2 come to terms with sth

C2 a conflict of interest

C2 sore point - больная мозоль

C2 stand a chance: to have the possibility of succeeding or achieving something
    "She stands a good chance of passing her exam if she works hard."
    "The driver didn't stand a chance of stopping in time."

C2 stand trial: to be put on trial in a law court.
    "She will stand trial/go on trial for fraud."
    "Two other men are to stand trial next month for their part in the bombing."

C1 a shade

   turn to dust (literary)

   the dust settles

   go/put something into reverse: to start to happen or to make something happen in the opposite way (повернуть вспять/пойти в обратном направлении):
     "In 2008 economic growth went into reverse."
     "Various problems have put the company’s expansion plans into reverse."
     "The trend towards home ownership has gone into reverse."

   of every stripe/of all stripes: of all types/categories/opinions/...
     "politicians of every stripe"
     "commentators of all political stripes"
     "She's an educator of a very different stripe."
     "They are not all of one stripe."
     "Governments of every stripe (= of all political opinions) have a bad habit of interfering in state broadcasting."

C1 have had enough (of something/somebody): used when something/somebody is annoying you and you no longer want to do, have or see it or them
     ? "The rebel had enough of the government's unfair polices."
     "I've had enough - I'm going home."
     "I've had enough of driving the kids around."

B2 watch out

   to (good/best) advantage - в лучшем виде, в наиболее выгодном свете (in a way that shows the best of sb/sth):
     "The photograph showed him to advantage."
     "May was the month to see the garden to best advantage."
     "The bright lighting showed the jewels to their best advantage."

C2 go against the grain

   (saying) ignorance is bliss - "Меньше знаешь, крепче спишь": Some doctors believe ignorance is bliss and don't give their patients all the facts.

C2 beyond/without a shadow of a doubt

C2 in no uncertain terms - недвусмысленно

C2 in confidence - по секрету

   landing party - десант, десантная группа/отряд

   (like rats) deserting/leaving a sinking ship

   (build) castles in the air: (to have) plans or dreams that are not likely to happen or come true
     "As a child he would wander round the boatyards, building castles in the air about owning a boat one day."

C2 hold/keep/take sb prisoner

C2 be the envy of sb

B2 be (of) no use

   long time no see: ​(informal) used to say hello to somebody you have not seen for a long time (сколько лет, сколько зим!; давненько не виделись)

C2 in vain: unsuccessfully (напрасно, тщетно), see also: to no avail, of little/no avail.
     "I tried in vain to start a conversation." - Я тщетно пытался начать разговор.
     "They tried in vain to persuade her to go." - Они тщетно пытались убедить её пойти.
     "She waited in vain for her son to return." - Она тщетно ждала возвращения её сына.
     "All the police's efforts to find him were in vain." - все попытки полиции найти его были напрасны.
     "All our efforts were in vain." - Все наши усилися были напрасны.

   take sb's name in vain (UK humorous): to criticize someone or talk about someone without respect, especially when they are not there (упоминать всуе)
     "(humorous) Have you been taking my name in vain again?"
     "to take the Lord's name in vain"

   in the name of sb/sth | in sb’s/sth’s name
     1) на чьё-либо имя (for sb; showing that sth’s officially belongs to sb):
       "I'm here to pick up my tickets - I reserved them by phone yesterday in the name of Tremin."
       "We reserved two tickets in the name of Brown."
       "The car is registered in my name."
       "The house is in my wife's name."
     2) именем (using the authority of sb/sth; as a representative of sb/sth)
       "I arrest you in the name of the law."
       "They were arrested in the name of the king."
       "As members of the union, we have the right to know what action the union is taking in our name."
     3) ради, во имя (used to give a reason or an excuse for doing sth, often when what you are doing is wrong)
       "crimes committed in the name of religion"

B2 expose sb to sth

   ​(saying) every sad or difficult situation has a positive side

C2 at the crack of dawn (informal) - спозаранку, на рассвете (very early in the morning, especially at the time when the sun first appears):
    "We'll have to leave at the crack of dawn."
    "I have to get up at the crack of dawn."

C2 crack up (informal) - съезжать с катушек (​to become ill, either physically or mentally, because of pressure):
     "I think she's cracking up."
     "You'll crack up if you carry on working like this."
     "He thought he'd never get through the ordeal without cracking up."

C2 crack (sb) up (informal) - заржать / рассмешить (to suddenly laugh a lot, or to make someone suddenly laugh a lot):
     "I took one look at her and cracked up."
     "He walked in and everyone just cracked up."
     "There's something about that guy's face that just cracks me up."

C2 crack down - закручивать гайки, бороться (to start dealing with bad or illegal behaviour in a more severe way):
     "to crack down hard on crime"
     "The library is cracking down on people who lose their books."
     "Police are cracking down on drug dealers."

C1 be sure to
   be certain to
   be bound to
   be likely likely

C2 in the face of sth - вопреки, несмотря на, перед лицом трудностей, опасностей и т.д. (despite problems, difficulties, etc.):
     "She showed great courage in the face of danger."
     "The campaign continued in the face of great opposition."
     "She left home in the face of strong opposition from her parents."

   hands down - по любому, стопудово (easily and without any doubt, definitely):
     "If we had a race, he’d win hands down."
     "It is hands down the best movie this year."
     "They won hands down."

   lock, stock, and barrel - до последней мелочи (including all or every part of sth):
     "He sold the business lock, stock and barrel."
     "We had to move our things lock, stock, and barrel to the other side of the country."

   be on the horns of a dilemma
     "The medical profession’s eagerness for scientific advance had impaled it on the horns of a dilemma, forcing an unnatural choice between science and morality."
     "The dire economic situation had placed the prime minister on the horns of a dilemma."
   take the bull by the horns - брать быка за рога (​to face a difficult or dangerous situation directly and with courage):
     "Nora decided to take the bull by the horns and organize things for herself."
     "Why don't you take the bull by the horns and tell him to leave?"
   draw/pull your horns in - потуже затянуть ремень (to start being more careful in your behaviour, especially by spending less money than before):
     "Small businesses have had to pull their horns in during the recession."
     "He'll have to draw in his horns now he's lost his job."
   lock horns (with sb) (over sth) - сцепиться рогами (to get involved in an argument with somebody):
     "The company has locked horns with the unions over proposed pay cuts."
     "The mayor and her deputy locked horns over plans for the new road."
     "My first test as a manager early in my career was locking horns with a union representative at a print factory."
     "The White House and Congress locked horns over how to cut the budget deficit."

C1 beat around the bush
C1 the best of both worlds
C2 learn/know the ropes
   on the same page

   square the circle - впихнуть невпихуемое, совместить несовместимое (to do something that is considered to be impossible):
     "Marketing companies are trying to square the circle of profitability and growth with strong ethical values and sustainability."

   sort out/separate the wheat from the chaff - отделить зёрна от плевел (to recognize the difference between useful or valuable people or things and those that are not useful or have no value):
     "We sifted through the application forms to separate the wheat from the chaff."
     "The first round of interviews really separates the wheat from the chaff."

C2 make your presence felt - "покажи им там :)" (to have a strong effect on other people or on a situation):
     "The new police chief has really made his presence felt."
     "She certainly made her presence felt in the boardroom."
     "She’s only been here a couple of weeks but she is already making her presence felt."

   rest assured (that…) - можете не сомневаться (used to emphasize that what you say is true or will definitely happen):
     "You may rest assured that we will do all we can to find him."
     "You can rest assured that you’re going to get a good deal."
   be there for sb - быть рядом, быть готовым придти на помощь (​to be available if sb wants to talk to you or if they need help)
     "You know I'll always be there for you."
     "Best friends are always there for each other in times of trouble."
     "We haven't always been close, but she was there for me when I needed her."

   bring sb/sth, come, get, fall, etc. into line (with sb/sth) - привести, быть и т.д. в соответствие (to make something the same as or similar to something else):
     "He'd like to bring the pay of an Army private into line with that of a police constable."
     "The actions of investors do not always fall into line with financial theory."
     "The other members of the board must be brought into line."

   the tide turned | turn the tide
   go, swim, etc. with/against the tide

   all along (the line) - всё время, с самого начала (​all the time; from the very beginning):
     "Do you think he's been cheating us all along?"
     "I realized it was in my pocket all along."
     "The project's been plagued with financial problems all along the line."

   put sth down to experience (also chalk something up to experience) - извлечь опыт (to decide that instead of being upset about something bad that has happened or that you have done, you will learn from it):
     "We lost a lot of money, but we just put it down to experience."
     "There's nothing we can do about it now, we'll just have to put it down to experience."
     "Okay, so you made a mistake - you just have to put it down to experience and carry on with your life."

   err on the side of caution - перестраховаться (to be especially careful rather than taking a risk or making a mistake):
     "25 people have replied to the invitation, but I've erred on the side of caution and put out 30 chairs."

   to err is human (to forgive divine).

   wax and wane - ​(literary) to increase then decrease in strength, importance, etc. over a period of time:
     "Public interest in the issue has waxed and waned over the years."
     "His commitment to democracy and free markets has waxed and waned with his political fortunes."

   hold/keep sb/sth at bay - сдерживать, держать подальше/в страхе (to prevent an enemy from coming close or a problem from having a bad effect):
     "He held the police at bay for several hours."
     "I'm trying to keep my creditors at bay."
     "Charlotte bit her lip to hold the tears at bay."

C2 put a stop to sth - положить конец чему-л. (to stop an unpleasant, unwanted activity or habit from continuing):
     "He used to smoke in bed when I first got to know him, but I soon put a stop to that!"

C2 put your foot down - топнуть ногой, применить свою власть (to use your authority to stop something happening):
  "When she started borrowing my clothes without asking, I had to put my foot down."
  "You've got to put your foot down and make him stop seeing her."

   in full swing - в самом разгаре (​having reached a very lively level):
     "When we arrived the party was already in full swing."
     "The report confirms that the economic recovery is in full swing."

С1/B1 you see - видите ли (used when you hope someone else will understand what you are saying or asking):
  "You see, the thing is, we won't be finished before Friday."
  "You see, it's better if you do your homework before dinner."
  "You see, I'm one of those people who likes to try new things."
  "Mother, you see, is a very pious woman, and she attributes it all to Providence, saying that it was the Divine interference in her behalf."

C1 rule of thumb: ​a practical method of doing or measuring something, usually based on past experience rather than on exact measurement - эмпирическое (практическое) правило
   "As a rule of thumb, you should cook a chicken for 20 minutes for each pound of weight."
   "A good rule of thumb is that a portion of rice is two handfuls."

C2 the final/last straw / the straw that breaks the camel's back - последняя капля (​the last in a series of bad events, etc. that makes it impossible for you to accept a situation any longer):
   "Losing my job was bad enough, but being evicted was the final straw."
   "She's always been rude to me, but it was the last straw when she started insulting my mother."

   clutch/grasp at straws - цепляться/хвататься за соломинку (to try all possible means to find a solution or some hope in a difficult or unpleasant situation, even though this seems very unlikely):
     "I know I’m just clutching at straws here, but is it possible that the doctors are wrong?"
     "She offered to take a pay cut to keep her job, but she was just clutching at straws."

   draw straws (for sth) - тянуть жребий:
     "We drew straws for who went first."

C2 safe and sound - цел/жив и невредим (completely safe and without injury or damage):
     "After three days lost in the mountains, all the climbers arrived home safe and sound."

C2 lose heart - унывать, "руки опускаются" (to stop believing that you can succeed):
     "Don't lose heart, there'll be plenty more chances for promotion."
   burnt out (US usually burned out)

   a blank canvas/slate - чистый лист (a person or thing that has the potential to be developed or changed in many different ways):
     "The building is a blank canvas for an clever investor to potentially make a lot of money."
     "Alice was a blank slate in the first film because she had memory loss and knew nothing about herself."
     "A 60-year-old can no longer be regarded as a blank canvas, however. Life events leave their mark."
     "Interior designers rarely work with a blank canvas and the licence to do absolutely anything they want."
   draw a blank - to get no response or result:
     "So far, the police investigation has drawn a blank."
     "He asked me for my phone number and I drew a blank - I just couldn't remember it."
   go blank - затупить (to forget something that you know, often temporarily)
     "I went blank and couldn't think of a single example."
     "When she asked me his name, my mind went blank."

   a clean slate/sheet - чистый лист, новый старт (a record of your work or behaviour that does not show any mistakes or bad things that you have done):
     "A new year is always like a clean slate."
     "No government operates with a completely clean slate."
     "Everyone who comes to this school starts with a clean slate."
     "Jed looked forward to starting life again with a clean sheet."
     "Lewis has kept a clean sheet in every game (=not let the other team score)."

   happy medium - (approving) золотая середина (a state or way of doing something that avoids being extreme, often combining the best of two opposite states or ways of doing something)
     "I try to strike a (= achieve a) happy medium when I'm on holiday, and spend half my time doing things and the other half just relaxing."
     "She tried to strike a happy medium between making the questions too hard and making them too easy."
   the happy/golden mean - (approving) золотая середина (a course of action that is not extreme)

   be on the move:
     (also be on the go) (informal) to be very active and busy:
       "I've been on the move all day."
       "Having four children keeps her on the move."
     to be travelling from place to place:
       "His career as a petroleum engineer has kept him on the move."
     ​to be moving; to be going somewhere:
       "The car was already on the move."
       "The firm is on the move to larger offices."

B2 get/attract/catch sb's attention - привлечь внимание (to make someone notice you):
     "I knocked on the window to get her attention."

C2 come to terms with sth - принять, смириться (to gradually accept a sad situation, often the death of someone you love):
     "She is still coming to terms with her son's death."
   come to terms (with somebody) - смириться, примириться (to reach an agreement with somebody; to find a way of living or working together):
     "The enemy was eventually forced to come to terms."
     "He made little effort to come to terms with his critics."

   carved/set in stone - (of a decision, plan, etc.) unable to be changed:
     "The schedule isn’t set in stone, but we’d like to stick to it pretty closely."
     "People should remember that our proposals aren't set in stone."
     "These rules are not set in stone."

   roll up your sleeves - засучить рукава (to prepare for hard work):
     "There's a lot of work to do, so roll up your sleeves and get busy."

   (hard/hot/close) at/on sb's heels - на хвосте, по пятам, наступать на пятки (following closely behind sb):
     "She ran down the steps with a group of journalists hard on her heels."
     "He fled from the stadium with the police at his heels."
     "She came up the path with two little dogs at her heels."

   pat sb/yourself on the back - (informal) to praise somebody or yourself for doing something well
   a pat on the back (for sth/for doing sth) - ​(informal) praise or approval for something that you have done well
     "He deserves a pat on the back for all his hard work."
     "Give yourself a pat on the back!" - возьми с полки пирожок
   pat sb down - обыскивать (to search someone for weapons, drugs, etc. by touching their clothes):
     "The police handcuffed him and patted him down."

   pluck sth out of the air - взять с потолка (to say a name, number, etc. without thinking about it, especially in answer to a question):
     "I just plucked a figure out of the air and said : ‘Would £1 000 seem reasonable to you?’"
   out of thin air - из воздуха, из ниоткуда (from nowhere or nothing, as if by magic):
     "Unfortunately, I can’t just conjure up the money out of thin air!"
     "I can't come up with €10,000 out of thin air."
     "They built the cell phone industry out of thin air in the mid-1980s."

   on a level/par with sb/sth (see also: alongside?) - наряду, наравне, на одном уровне (​as good, bad, important, etc. as sb/sth else):
     "This place is on a level with the best French restaurants."
     "The regeneration of the city's downtown dock front will put it on a par with Nice or Cannes."

   jog sb's memory - освежить воспоминания (to cause you to remember something):
     "Seeing her again jogged my memory, and I recalled my life as a child on a farm in Minnesota."
     "Maybe these letters will help to jog your memory."

   sink or swim - to be in a situation where you will either succeed by your own efforts or fail completely:
     "The new students were just left to sink or swim."
     "In a situation like this, you either sink or swim."
     "My employer gave me no help when I started my new job - I was just left to sink or swim."
   sink to such a level/such depths (also sink so low, sink/stoop to a new/an all-time low) - опуститься/пасть так низко, пробить дно (to do something so bad, to behave in a worse way than ever before):
     "Stealing from your friends? How could you sink so low?"
     "With this article the newspaper has sunk to a new low."
     "I can't believe that anyone would sink to such depths."
     "I can't believe you would sink so low as to snitch on your best friends."
     "Reality TV has sunk to new lows."
     "The government has stooped to an all-time low with this policy."
   sinking fast - быстро угасать ((of a person's health) getting much worse quickly so that death is likely):
     "Mrs Jones is sinking fast, and the doctor doesn't think she'll live much longer."
   sinking ship - тонущий корабль (a company or other organization that is failing):
     "He'd seen the accounts, realized he was on a sinking ship, and decided to get off."
     (like rats) deserting/leaving a sinking ship ​(humorous, disapproving):
   a/that sinking feeling (informal) - дурное предчуствие (an unpleasant feeling that you get when you realize that something bad has happened or is going to happen):
     "I had a horrible sinking feeling when I saw the ambulance outside the house."
     "I had a sinking feeling when I picked up the bill."
   be sunk in sth - погруженный в мысли (to be in a state of unhappiness or deep thought):
     "She just sat there, sunk in thought."
     "Rodin's sculpture "The Thinker" is of a man sitting with his head in his hand, sunk in thought."
   sb’s heart sinks - сердце упало/замерло (used to say that somebody suddenly feels sad or depressed about something):
     "My heart sank when I saw how much work there was left."
     "She watched him go with a sinking heart."
   sink in/sink into sth - впитаться ((of liquids) to go down into another substance through the surface):
     "The rain sank into the dry ground."
     "You'd better wipe up that coffee you spilled on the carpet before it sinks in."
   sink in - дойти, осознать (​(of words, an event, etc.) to be fully understood or realized):
     "He paused to allow his words to sink in."
     "The full scale of the disaster has yet to sink in."
     "It took a moment for the implications of what she was saying to sink in."

   be in sb's shoes | put yourself in sb shoes/position/place - быть/поставить/представить себя на месте другого (to imagine that you are someone in a difficult situation, and imagine how that person feels):
     "Put yourself in my place – I was scared, and I had nobody to talk to."
     "I wouldn't like to be in your shoes when they find out about it."
     "Well what would you do? Just put yourself in my shoes."

C2 speak your mind - открыто высказывать своё мнение (to say exactly what you think, in a very direct way):
     "She’s never hesitated about speaking her mind."
     "Everyone should have the right to speak their mind."

C2 be out of the question (also be no question of (doing) sth) - не может быть и речи (​impossible or not allowed and therefore not worth discussing):
     "A trip to New Zealand is out of the question this year."
     "There's no question of agreeing to the demands."

   bucket list (informal) - дела земные (a list of things that you want to do before you die):
     "I have so many things on my bucket list yet to do."
     "Travelling to India has been on my bucket list for years."

   be/weigh on your conscience - быть на совести, тяготеть (​making you feel guilty for doing or failing to do something):
     "Yesterday I ignored an old woman who asked me for money in the street, and it's been on my conscience ever since."
     "I'll write and apologize. I've had it on my conscience for weeks."
     "It’s still on my conscience that I didn’t warn him in time."

   the home stretch (also the home straight especially in British English) - финишная прямая (​​the last part of a race; the last part of an activity, etc. when it is nearly completed):
     "We're going into the home stretch of the presidential election."
     "It's taken three months, but we're on the home stretch now."

C2 bottom line - суть, основная мысль (the most important thing that you have to consider or accept; the essential point in a discussion, situation, etc.):
     "The bottom line is that we have to make a decision today."
     "The bottom line is that we need another ten thousand dollars to complete the project."

C2 slip sb's memory/mind - вылетело из головы ():
     "I forgot I'd arranged to meet Richard last night - it completely slipped my mind."
     "I’m sorry I didn’t tell you. It completely slipped my mind."

   slip through sb's fingers - ускользнуть из рук (​to miss or fail to use an opportunity):
     "You shouldn't let a job/man like that slip through your fingers!"
     "Don't let the chance to work abroad slip through your fingers."

   slip through the net (also fall/slip through the cracks) - быть упущенным из виду, ускользнуть (when sb/sth slips through the net, an organization or a system fails to find them and deal with them):
     "We tried to contact all former students, but one or two slipped through the net."
     "Once again terrorists have slipped through the police net."

C2 slip out - вылетело, вырвалось (If a remark slips out, you say it without intending to):
     "I'm sorry I said that. It just slipped out."

C2 slip up (informal) - оступиться, лажануть (​to make a careless mistake):
     "We can't afford to slip up."
     "The government slipped up badly over the scandal."
     "These figures don't make sense - have we slipped up somewhere?"

C2 slip away - выскользнуть, быть упущенным (If sb's power or the possibility of sb winning or achieving sth slips away, it disappears):
     "Political power was really in their hands and they let it slip away."

C2 slip away - выскользнуть (to leave secretly):
     "He slipped away while we were all sleeping."

C2 slip away - ускользать, утекать (If a period of time slips away, it passes quickly):
     "Time was slipping away and she had to make a decision soon."

   slip away - иссякнуть (to stop existing; to disappear or die): "Their support gradually slipped away."

   give sb the slip (informal) - ускользнуть от кого-л.:
     "I managed to give him the slip by hiding behind a wall."

   a slip of the pen/tongue - оговорка/описка (a small mistake in sth that you write or say):
     "Did I call you Richard? Sorry, Robert, just a slip of the tongue."
     "I didn't mean to say that—it was just a slip of the tongue."
     "I called her new boyfriend by her previous boyfriend's name - it was just a slip of the tongue."

   let slip <-> sth - проговориться, проболтаться, выболтать, разболтать (​to give sb information that is supposed to be secret), spill the beans (informal):
     "He let it slip that he hadn't actually read the report."
     "I happened to let it slip that he had given me £1 000 for the car."
     "She tried not to let slip what she knew."
     "So who spilled the beans about her affair with David?"

   (slip/be thrown) out of gear - выйти из под контроля (​(of emotions or situations) (to become) out of control):
     "She said nothing in case her temper slipped out of gear."

   roll/slip/trip off the tongue - (to be easy to say or pronounce):
     "The new company will need to have a name that trips off the tongue and is easy to remember."

   beg the question - ставить/поднимать вопрос, "но возникает вопрос, ..." (If a statement or situation begs the question, it causes you to ask a particular question):
     "All of which begs the question as to who will fund the project."
     "To discuss the company's future begs the question of whether it has a future."
     "Spending the summer travelling around India is a great idea, but it does beg the question of how we can afford it."

   as to sth | as regards sth - касаемо, что касается, в отношении (​used when you are referring to sth):
     "As to tax, that will be deducted from your salary."
     "As to where we'll get the money from, we'll talk about that later."
   as to = about (formal):
     "He was uncertain as to which road to take."
     "There's no decision as to when the work might start."
     "I have a few ideas as to how we might do this."
     "There is a serious issue as to whether or not we give tutors enough guidance."

C2 over the top (also OTT) - перебор, чересчур (done with too much acting, emotion or effort):
     "Her make-up was a bit OTT."
     "The speech was a bit OTT."
     "I thought the decorations were way (= very) over the top."
     "He realized he'd gone over the top with the seating arrangements."

   wear your heart on your sleeve (to allow your feelings to be seen by other people)Ж
     "He’s not one to wear his heart on his sleeve."

   bottle up sth - to refuse to talk about something that angers or worries you:
     "Feelings that had been bottled up for years came flooding out."

   the apple of sb's eye (old-fashioned) - зеница ока, "услада очей моих" (a person or thing that is loved more than any other), see also: pride and joy:
     "His youngest daughter was the apple of his eye."

   be better off - ​to have more money:
     "Families will be better off under the new law."
     "Her promotion means she's $100 a week better off."
     "Obviously we're better off now that we're both working."
     "When his parents died, he found himself $100,000 better off (= he had $100,000 more than before)."
   be better off (doing sth) - to be in a better situation, if or after something happens:
     "She's better off without him."
     "The weather was so bad we'd have been better off staying at home."
     "He'd be better off working for a bigger company."

   better/harder/worse etc still (also still better/harder/worse etc) - (что) ещё лучше/тяжелее/хуже (even better, harder etc than something else):
     "Dan found biology difficult, and physics harder still."
     "But perhaps the early evening was better still?"
     "I thought that it would soon pass, and it did - for you to work harder still."
     "I started to hunt for a cheap restaurant or, better still, a snack shop."
     "He didn't talk because he was afraid of losing the pole or, worse still, falling in."
     "Or better still, make a real talent show instead."
     "Or better still, there was the village school practically next door!"
     "With hindsight, it would have better still to lock in a few more gains."
    better yet - (а) ещё лучше (used to say that while one thing is good, another thing is even better):
      "You can see and, better yet, hear the effects of these changes on their website."
      "I wanted to make my parents proud by becoming a lawyer or, better yet, a doctor."

C2 dawn on sb - озарило, осенило (if sth dawns on you, you begin to realize it for the first time):
     "Suddenly it dawned on me that they couldn't possibly have met before."
     "I was about to pay for the shopping when it suddenly dawned on me that I'd left my wallet at home."
     "Worse still, it dawned on me that Economics was the wrong course for me - I didn’t want to work in the corporate world."

B2 deep down - в глубине души (felt strongly and often hidden from other people):
     "Deep down, I know you love me really."
     "Deep down I still loved him."
     "e was always a good bloke deep down."

C2 the ins and outs - тонкости (the detailed or complicated facts of something):
     "the ins and outs of the problem"
     "He quickly learned the ins and outs of the job."
     "I know how to use computers, but I don't really understand the ins and outs of how they work."
   the nuts and bolts (of sth) - ​(informal) тонкости (the basic practical details of a subject or an activity):
     "The documentary focuses on the real nuts and bolts of the film-making process."
     "When it came to the nuts and bolts of running a business, he was clearly unable to cope."

C2 first and foremost - в первую очередь (more than anything else):
     "He does a little teaching, but first and foremost he's a writer."
     "In spite of being elected to office, she remains first and foremost a writer."

C2 (put sth) in a nutshell - короче (говоря), одним словом, вкратце ((to say or express sth) in a very clear way, using few words):
     "To put it in a nutshell, we're bankrupt."
     "Well, to put it in a nutshell, we're lost."
   in a word (informal) - короче (говоря), одним словом (used for giving a very short, usually negative, answer or comment):
     "In a word, she's lying."
     "‘Would you like to help us?’ ‘In a word, no.’"

   regain your feet - подняться на ноги (to stand up again after falling or being knocked down)
     "I've been bedridden for so long that it took a bit of effort to finally regain my feet."
     "The boxer struggled to regain her feet after being knocked to the mat."
     "I'd be able to regain my feet if I could just pay off this damned credit card debt."
   regain (lost) ground - восстановить (потерянные) позиции (to begin to be strong or successful again after a period of difficulty):
     "On the Nasdaq, technology stocks struggled to regain ground after Wednesday's sell-off."

   (up) to the hilt - по уши, дальше некуда, "по самое не балуйся" (as much as possible):
     "We're mortgaged up to the hilt."
     "They have promised to back us to the hilt."

   the/a prodigal (son) - блудный сын (a person who leaves home and wastes their money and time on a life of pleasure, but who later is sorry about this and returns home):
     "The prodigal son has returned to the team after a three-year absence."

   take your cue from sb/sth - руководствоваться, следовать примеру (to take notice of someone's words or behaviour so that you know what you should do):
     "Investors are taking their cue from the big banks and selling dollars."
     "She watched his lips carefully and took her cue from him."
     "They all took their cue from their leader."

   (right) on cue - по команде (​at exactly the moment you expect or that is appropriate):
     "‘Where is that boy?’ As if on cue, Simon appeared in the doorway."
     "I was just wondering where Sarah was, when, right on cue, she came in."
     "I can't just cry on cue!"

   live off sb/sth - жить/выживать за счёт ((often disapproving) to receive the money you need to live from sb/sth because you do not have any yourself):
     "to live off welfare" - жить за счёт состояния
     "All his life he had lived off his father."
     "They had learned to live off the land (= grow or find their own food)."
     "She's still living off her parents."
   live off sth - питаться преимущественно чем-то одним (​to have one particular type of food as the main thing you eat in order to live):
     "He seems to live off junk food."

   in/out of commission - в исправном/неисправном состоянии (​available/not available to be used):
     "Several of the airline's planes are temporarily out of commission and undergoing safety checks."

   weed sth/sb out - отсеивать (to remove or get rid of people or things from a group because they are not wanted or are less good than the rest):
     "Most applicants get weeded out before the interview stage."
     "The first round of interviews only really serves to weed out the very weakest of applicants."

   along the way - попутно, по ходу дела, за это время (​as you make progress with something):
     "You'll learn something along the way."
     "I've been in this job for 30 years, and I've picked up a good deal of expertise along the way."

C2 come as/be a revelation (to sb) - стать/быть откровением (to be an extremely pleasant surprise; to be different from what was expected):
     "His performance in the race today was a revelation to everyone."
     "My trip to Texas was a revelation."
     "This book came as a complete revelation to me"

C1 let alone - не говоря уже о (used after a negative statement to emphasize how unlikely a situation is because something much more likely has never happened):
     "Some people never even read a newspaper, let alone a book."
     "There isn't enough room for us, let alone any guests."
     "I didn’t have any clothes, let alone a passport."

   out of step - не в ногу, не на одной волне:
     "I'm no good at dancing - I always get completely out of step."
     "The governor's remarks show that she is seriously out of step with the voters."

   the time is ripe - время пришло (If you say that the time is ripe, you mean that it is a suitable point for a particular activity):
     "I'm waiting till the time is ripe before I tell my parents that I failed my two exams."

   pull together - объединять/консолидировать усилия (to act, work, etc. together with other people in an organized way and without fighting):
     "We don't have much time but if we all pull together we should get the job done."
     "When a team pulls together, that means they channel their energy and skills towards one specific goal."

B2 take turns (UK also take it in turn(s)) (to do sth/(in) doing sth) - по очереди (if people take turns or take it in turns to do something, they do it one after the other to make sure it is done fairly):
     "We take turns answering the phone."
     "The male and female birds take turns in sitting on the eggs."
     "We take it in turns to do the housework."
     "The kids took turns on the swing."

C1 in turn (also by turns) - по очереди (one after the other in a particular order):
     "Each of us takes a break in turn."
     "The children called out their names in turn."
     "She spoke to each of the guests in turn."
   in turn - в свою очередь (as a result of something in a series of events):
     "Increased production will, in turn, lead to increased profits."
     "Stress causes your body to release chemicals, which in turn boost blood pressure."

   out of turn - вне/без череди (if you do sth out of turn, you do it when you are not supposed to be the next person to do sth):
     "Batista had batted out of turn."
     "I'm writing to you out of turn because I have some very important news."

   draw up - подъехать (if a vehicle draws up, it arrives and stops):
     "The cab drew up outside the house."
     "She waved to me as I drew up."

   draw sth <-> up - придвинуть стул (to move a chair near to sb or sth):
     "Draw up a chair, and I'll tell you all about it."

C1 draw sth <-> up - составить, подготовить (to make or write sth that needs careful thought or planning, esp. plans or a formal document):
     "to draw up a contract/list"
     "Make sure the contract is properly drawn up."
     "The lawyers drew up a contract over the weekend."
     "I've drawn up a list of candidates that I'd like to interview."

   draw yourself up - подтянуться, выпрямиться в полный рост, расправить плечи (to make yourself look bigger by standing straight with your shoulders back, usually to try to seem more important):
     "Like a lot of short men, he tends to draw himself up to his full height in public."

C1 draw the line - провести черту, не переходить черту/грань, не позволять (себе?) (to never do sth because you think it is wrong):
     "I swear a lot, but even I draw the line at saying certain words."

   take (great) pains (to do sth) | go to great pains (to do sth) - приложить (большие) усилия (to put a lot of effort into doing sth)
     "He took great pains to dress well for the occasion."
     "The couple went to great pains to keep their plans secret."
   take (great) pains with/over sth - приложить (большие) усилия (to do something very carefully):
     "He always takes great pains with his lectures."

   great minds think alike ​(informal, humorous) - у дураков мысли сходятся (said to someone just after you have discovered that they have had the same idea as you)

   great and small - от мала до велика (of all sizes or types):
     "all creatures great and small"

   the elephant in the room - an obvious problem that no one wants to discuss:
     "I don't want to ask the question, but it is the big elephant in the room."
     "The elephant in the room was the money that had to be paid in bribes."

C2 so to speak - так сказать (used to emphasize that you are expressing something in an unusual or humorous way)
     "They were all very similar. All cut from the same cloth, so to speak."
     "In that relationship it's very much Lorna who wears the trousers, so to speak (= Lorna makes all the important decisions)."

   push the envelope (informal) - раздвинуть границы, выйти за рамки (to go beyond the limits of what is allowed or thought to be possible):
     "He is a performer who consistently pushes the envelope of TV comedy."
     "We will keep trying to push the envelope - our market demands it."
     "Just like every other kid, I pushed the envelope. If I got away with being ten minutes late one night, I might be twenty minutes late the next night."

C2 gain/get/have/etc. the upper hand - (to get an advantage over somebody so that you are in control of a particular situation):
     "After hours of fierce negotiations, the president gained/got/had the upper hand."
     "The lack of living space is also becoming a big problem, with hundreds of people applying to live in the same apartment, the homeowners have the upper hand."

     a storm in a teacup (US a tempest in a teapot) - буря в стакане (a lot of unnecessary anger and worry about a matter that is not important)

C2 be on cloud nine, walk on air - быть на 7м небе (to feel extremely excited or happy)
       "Was Helen pleased about getting that job?" "Pleased? She was on cloud nine!"
       "After the delivery of her baby, she was walking on air."
       "Most couples feel they are walking on air on their wedding day."








   proverbs (https://www.learnamericanenglishonline.com/Proverbs/Proverbs_A.html)

   A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.

   If something can go wrong, it will go wrong.

   If life gives you lemons, make lemonade.

   If it ain't broke, don't fix it: работает - не трожь

   Ignorance is bliss: меньше знаешь - крепче спишь

   too good to be true: so good that it is hard to believe, or seeming very good but not real.
     saying: "If it/sth is/seems/sounds too good to be true, it probably is"
     "Her new job sounds too good to be true."
     "I'm not surprised the offer wasn't genuine, it sounded too good to be true."
     "‘I'm afraid you were quoted the wrong price.’ ‘I thought it was too good to be true.’"

   no pain, no gain - под лежачий камень вода не течёт (used to say that you need to suffer if you want to achieve something)

   immediate family - ближайшие родственники (родители, дети, муж, жена)
   extended family - immediate family + бабушки, дедушки, дяди, тёти и т.д.
   nuclear family - двое родителей + дети
