airway - дыхательные пути: An airway is the passage by which air reaches a person’s lungs. "Since he was sick, mucus would occasionally get stuck in his airway."
anemia: anemia is a blood condition that causes a person to be pale and tired. "When she first developed anemia, she became tired often."
anesthesia: techniques for reducing sensation and feeling, especially to control pain: "The Civil War was the first American war when anesthesia was widely used in surgery on soldiers."
arthritis: arthritis is an illness causing pain and swelling in a person’s joints. "Agatha couldn’t play the piano anymore because of her arthritis."
asthma
autopsy - вскрытие, post-mortem
blister - волдырь
blister - покрывать(ся) волдырями: "The sun blistered the paintwork.", "I burned my shoulders over the weekend and they're starting to blister."
blister
bronchitis
calculus - камень (в почках или желчном пузыре), gallstone, kidney stone
calculus - зубной камень (MEDICAL), tartar
cancer - рак
chickenpox - ветряная оспа, smallpox - оспа: smallpox is a disease that causes tiny bumps on the skin and high fevers. "When she saw the tiny bumps, she thought her son might have smallpox."
clot - сгусток, тромб
clot - сворачиваться (о крови)
cramp - судорога: A cramp is a strong pain caused by a muscle after a lot of physical use. "After the marathon, Jenny got a terrible cramp in her calf muscle."
diabetes - диабет: diabetes is a medical condition where a person has too much sugar in their blood. "Overweight people are more likely to suffer from diabetes than slimmer ones."
fetus - плод (UK also foetus; fetal (UK also foetal) - эмбриональный), embryo - эмбрион, завязь: An embryo is a human or animal that is still growing inside its mother. "Some doctors say that what a mother eats has a big effect on her embryo."
hypertension / hypotension
insomnia: insomnia is a condition in which a person has difficulty sleeping. "Nate’s insomnia prevented him from getting enough rest."
lung: A lung is the organ in the body that fills with air when breathing. "Having strong lungs is necessary for a healthy life."
measles - корь
metabolism: A person’s metabolism is the way chemical processes in their body use energy. "If you exercise every day, your metabolism speeds up."
metabolic: When something is metabolic, it relates to a person’s or animal’s metabolism. "People who have a low metabolic rate will gain weight."
nauseous, nausea, ad nauseam: nausea is the feeling of being sick to your stomach. "The doctor said the medicine would help get rid of her nausea."
palpitations - учащённое сердцебиение (a physical condition in which your heart beats very quickly and in an irregular way)
plague: A plague is a serious disease that quickly spreads to many people. "A plague in Europe killed millions of people."
pneumonia: pneumonia is a dangerous illness causing the lungs to fill with liquid. "Elaine got pneumonia after playing outside in the rain without a coat."
rash - сыпь, hives - крапивница
sinew - сухожилие
tuberculosis
ulcer - язва
