legumes - бобовые
leguminous - зернобобовые
tendrils - усики

almond - миндаль
apricot - абрикос
arugula (US), rocket (UK) - руккола
avocado
bamboo - бамбук
barley - ячмень: barley is a grain that is used for animal feed, health food and beer. "The farmer grew barley to feed his cows in the winter."
birch - берёза
briar - шиповник
broccoli
cabbage - капуста
carnation - гвоздика
cauliflower - цветная капуста
chestnut - каштан
chrysanthemum
coconut
cucumber
daisy - маргаритка: A daisy is a small flower with white petals and a yellow center. "There were a few daisyies growing in the field."
eggplant - баклажан
eucalyptus (also eucalyptus tree, gum tree) (plural eucalyptuses, eucalypti)
garlic - чеснок
fig - инжир
filbert, hazel (nut)
grapefruit: A grapefruit is a fruit similar to an orange, but bigger and not as sweet. "Would you like a grapefruit with your breakfast?"
hazelnut - фундук
ivy - плющ: ivy is a plant with long vines that grows upward typically on walls. "The walls of the castle are covered with ivy."
juniper - можжевельник
lettuce - салат
lily - лилия
lime - лайм
linden - липа
lotus - лотос
maple, maple tree - клён
marigold = calendula - календула, ноготки, бархатцы
moss - мох: moss is a small green or yellow plant that grows on wet dirt, rocks, or tree trunks. "Be careful not to slip on the moss that’s covering those rocks."
palm, palmtree - пальма
pansy - анютины глазки
pea: peas are a vegetable that is small, round and green. "His favorite food was peas."
peach - персик
peanut - арахис
pear - груша
pepper, capsicum
pine (tree) - сосна; spruce, fir - ель; silver fir - пихта; larch - лиственница; cedar - кедр; herringbone - узор "ёлочкой" (herring - сельдь): A pine is a type of tree that is tall and thin. "There were many beautiful pine trees in the forest."
pine nut (UK also pine kernel) - кедровые орешки (pine nuts)
pineapple - ананас
pistachio
pomegranate - гранат
poplar, cottonwood - тополь
pumpkin - тыква
reed - камыш: reeds are tall and skinny plants that grow in groups near water. "The sun set behind the reeds of the lake’s shore."
rhubarb - ревень
sage - шалфей
soy (UK soya) - соя: soy is a food made from soybeans (UK soya beans), such as flour or butter. "soy can be made into tofu, sauce, and also milk."
sprout ​(also Brussels sprout, Brussel sprout) - Брюссельская капуста
squash - кабачок
stigma - рыльце пестика
sunflower
thistle - чертополох
thorn - шип, колючка (also spine); blackthorn - терн, терновник
tulip - тюльпан
walnut - грецкий орех
weeping willow, willow tree
wheat - пшеница: wheat is a plant which makes grain. wheat grain is used to make bread. "The field of golden wheat was ready to be harvested."
